---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Unscripted Take on JavaScript
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2019-09-10
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
---



Before starting my Software Engineering class at UH Manoa, I had absolutely no knowledge of JavaScript and like most who have little knowledge of programming, I thought JavaScript was virtually identical to Java because after all, they basically share the same name. Lo and behold, when a JavaScript assignment was assigned, I was blown away by how fundamentally different JavaScript was compared to Java. When creating objects and variables, I was amazed by how much freedom JavaScript allows when handling data types, it is essentially one size fits all. 

Like what Uncle Ben said to Peter Parker in Spider-Man, with great power, comes great responsibility. I find that the way JavaScript handles data types is a little risky because novice programmers can use easily use wrong functions that are incompatible with the data that the function is operating on without knowing that they made a mistake. Another thing that programmers might find difficult with JavaScript is reading code, especially code that others write. Compared to Java, I find JavaScript to be much harder to read. However, this may just be due to my inexperience with JavaScript and who knows, I might find reading it easier than Java in the future. 

Overall, I am very excited to learn the intricacies of JavaScript because of all the possibilities it offers. The wide range of frameworks and libraries JavaScript has is a sight to behold and the ability to use it effectively as a front-end and back-end tool makes learning it worthwhile and efficient. 

Although I am starting to fall in love with JavaScript, it still gives me a lot of stress. Whenever I work with JavaScript, I start to think of the WODs that we do in class. WOD stands for workout of the day because every day my software engineering class meets, we do timed programming exercises and if you don’t finish in time, your grade is a zero. This is part of a program called athletic software engineering, a term that I love because I never thought that I, an unathletic Computer Science nerd would someday be called an athlete. To succeed in athletic software engineering, students must do three things. The first one is practice, the second one is practice and the third one is…. Yep, you guessed it, its practice again. Although my experience with JavaScript is stressful at first, I believe that with enough practice, I will soon be able to build beautiful web applications that solve real problems and do what technology does best, make people’s live easier, or at the very least make my life easier. 


