---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Wants and Needs an aspiring Software Engineer
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2019-09-14
labels:

---

Ever since I was young, I was always fascinated by technology. I find that technology makes our lives infinitely many times easier, from hammers to the birth of the internet, I look at technology as part of humanity's evolution. During high school, I decided to take a computer science class as an elective for fun and in doing so, changing my life forever. I completely fell in love with writing code because of the power it provided, I can automate mundane tasks, build wide-reaching businesses from my room with just a laptop and even attack people’s data (for FBI agents reading this, I am harmless). 

As I start my journey in software engineering, there is a long list of skills I would like to learn. First, I would like to learn front-end development because that is what customers will mainly see and the UI must be top-notch and respond to customer needs. I would like to learn React, Redux, HTML, CSS, and Angular as well as get a good grasp on JavaScript in order to start building web technologies. I want to learn how to make beautiful webpages that make interaction pleasant to my users, at the same time being intuitive and provides all desired features users might expect.

For backend, I would like to learn Java and Python to ensure that my technology can run in almost all machines and to also dabble with machine learning because having Jarvis from Iron Man as my assistant would allow me to get things done quickly.

Finally, for database management, I would like to expand my knowledge of SQL as well as learn how to use nonrelational databases so I can deploy either technology to fulfill my needs.  

