---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Under Development
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2019-10-10
labels:

---
  Websites are not like refrigerators. Aside from the obvious fact that they are two completely different things, for refrigerators (and I guess people), the outside does not matter, only the inside.  For websites, however, the old saying does not apply, the outside matters immensely and possibly more than the inside. When you build a website that is as plain as an 8x11 copier paper, your potential users will exit the site faster than they can hit the x button and then vomit immediately after the shock of seeing a visually unappealing site in 2019 where frameworks such as Semantic UI exist.

	What is one to do when looks are important and they don’t have it? Ladies and gentlemen and developers (drum roll please), Introducing Semantic UI!. Semantic UI is a framework that streamlines the styling of websites, allowing the developers to focus on the what instead of the how. By incorporating natural language, items can now use easy to understand classes such as “large red text ” to modify itself instead of using a CSS selector and modifying everything with font-style, font-size, color, margin, and all the other shenanigans. 

	Our HTML is essentially in the operating table awaiting plastic surgery from Semantic UI, one of the most popular plastic surgeons in the world, second only to Bootstrap. We can tell the venerable Semantic UI how we want our HTML to look like and by the end of the surgery, we get exactly what we want, barring any complications. However, like any surgery, there is a chance of complications arising that could make things worse. This has indeed happened to some of our HTML patients but luckily like any surgeon, Semantic UI gets better with practice as well as the results. 

	With such a useful tool in hand, you would think that every developer using Semantic UI is flying in Cloud 9. Well, not for this developer. There is no question that Semantic UI can make life easy when building websites. However, because of the learning curve, Semantic UI takes some time to get used to and even then, I still feel like I don’t know what is exactly going on under the hood. It might just be due to my inexperience using Semantic UI but I feel that since it comes in packages like snacks from Costco, I can’t pick exactly what I want and I am forced to eat the blue, original flavor from my box of SunChips. 


